Enabling and disabling dynamic plugin UIs (#478)
openshift/openshift-origin-design: designs/administrator/4.7/enable-dynamic-plugin-ui/index.md

---
parent: Administrator
version: 4.7
---

# Enabling and disabling dynamic plugin UIs

OpenShift console currently has static plugins that allow teams to contribute features to the UI such as OpenShift Virtualization and OpenShift Container Storage. These plugins live inside console code which means they can only be updated at the same cadence as the console. Newly developed ‘dynamic plugins’ will allow operators to contribute their included UIs at runtime, meaning that operators can update their UIs on their own cadence and more frequently.

Admins installing operators which include dynamic plugins will need to opt-in to having their UIs included in the console UI, which can happen as the operator is being configured for install. Trusted operators could perhaps have this option included by default, whereas other not-explicitly-trusted operators would need to have the user explicitly opt in, as there could be a security risk.

> Once the operator with dynamic plugin UI is installed, the user can also turn the dynamic plugin UI on and off in the operator details. The operator list view would also convey any operators with not enabled dynamic UIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the operator with the dynamic plugin UI is installed, the user can also turn the dynamic plugin UI on or off in the operator details. The operator list view would also convey any operators with disabled dynamic UIs.
```

> ## Enabling dynamic plugin UI on operator install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enabling dynamic plugin UI during operator install
```

### Trusted operator install

![Operator trusted install](img/1-1-install-rh.png)

> - A new radio option would appear for operators that include dynamic plugin UIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A new radio group would appear for operators that include dynamic plugin UIs.
```

> - Trusted operators would have their dynamic UIs enabled by default.

Reviewer 2: What is used to determine if an operator is trusted?

Reviewer 3: > What is used to determine if an operator is trusted?

Operators that come from the `redhat-operators` CatalogSource would have the radio button enabled by default.

> - A note on “trusted”: Disconnected environments need all operator sources manually added so they all (even Red Hat & certified operators) may appear as “untrusted.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A note on “trusted”: Disconnected environments need all operator sources manually added so they all (even Red Hat & certified operators) will appear as “untrusted”.
```
may vs will? Not sure - is this definite?

![Operator install popover](img/1-2-install-rhPop.png)
- An info popover would further describe implications of enabling an operator’s UI.

### Untrusted operator install

![Operator untrusted install](img/1-3-install-3rd.png)

> - Untrusted operators would have dynamic UIs disabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Distrusted operators would have dynamic UIs disabled by default.
```

![Operator untrusted install alert](img/1-4-install-3rdEnable.png)
- Enabling the UI for the untrusted operator shows an inline alert conveying implications.

## Enabling/disabling dynamic plugin UIs in operator details

![Operator details setting](img/3-1-details.png)

> - Operators with dynamic plugin UIs would now include a setting in their details that conveys if their dynamic UI is enabled or disabled.

Reviewer 2: As with the list view below, the user needs to be able to `patch` the `Console` operator in order for the links (and possibly the entire `Console UI extension` section that contains them) to appear in the sidebar, no?  Being able to `get` the `Console` operator would allow us to show any plugins that are available, but not enable/disable them.

![Operator details modal](img/3-2-details-modal.png)
- Using the existing editing paradigm, this setting would be launched in a modal.
- The content of the modal would be the same as the Operator Install page popover and setting.

![Operator details modal enabled](img/3-3-details-modalEnabled.png)
- The modal would include the same inline alert when enabling UIs for untrusted operators.

![Operator details enabled](img/3-4-detailsEnabled.png)
- The setting is updated to convey the dynamic plugin UI is enabled.

## Enabling/disabling dynamic plugin UIs in operator details

![Operator list](img/2-1-listView.png)
- An operator that supports dynamic UIs but does not have them enabled would have an additional status on the Installed Operators page.

> - This status would only appear for users that have ‘read’ access on the operator config and would also be the only users able to update this setting as well.

Reviewer 2: Is what you're saying is the user needs `patch` on the `Console` operator in order for the link to appear?  Being able to `get` the `Console` operator would allow us to show any plugins that are available, but not enable/disable them.

Reviewer 2: The link here does not indicate state (Enabled/Disabled).  It seems like it should.  Otherwise the user has to click to find out whether or not the plugin is enabled or disabled.

Reviewer 2: As designed (with the addition of the plugin name when there is more than one)
<img width="1413" alt="Screen Shot 2021-02-09 at 9 31 17 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/895728/107378050-98347200-6ab9-11eb-9cee-7e8d5c030dfe.png">

Perhaps we should follow the pattern from the details page so we can indicate state?
<img width="1060" alt="Screen Shot 2021-02-09 at 9 44 47 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/895728/107379993-789e4900-6abb-11eb-94cf-5bad9ba5d98a.png">
